Introduce agents.md (#2997)
pi-hole/FTL: AGENTS.md

# AGENTS.md

## Project overview

FTL (`pihole-FTL`) is Pi-hole's DNS/DHCP engine. It embeds a modified `dnsmasq`, adds a query database, statistics, and a REST API, and serves the web interface via an embedded web server. It is written in C, built with CMake, and targets Linux only.

## Repository layout

- `src/` - FTL source code (C)

> - `src/dnsmasq/` - embedded dnsmasq. This is vendored upstream code that is regularly synced with dnsmasq upstream. Do not make changes here unless strictly necessary; Pi-hole-specific hooks live in `src/dnsmasq_interface.c`. Any unavoidable modification to dnsmasq source must be minimal and clearly marked so it survives upstream merges.

Reviewer: A patch must be written if any of the vendor files is modified. Patches live in `/patch`

- `test/` - test suite (BATS-based, plus API and regression tests)
- `cmake/` - CMake modules

## Dev environment tips

- Build on Linux (or in a Linux container) with `./build.sh`. Run `./build.sh -h` for all options.
- Useful options: `clean` (clean build), `dev` (build, install, restart, tail logs), `test` (run tests after building), `clang` (build with clang).
- CI builds use the `pihole/ftl-build` container images; use those if your host lacks the toolchain.
- The project does not build on macOS or Windows.

## Testing instructions

- Build and run the full suite from the repository root: `./build.sh test` (or `test/run.sh` directly after building).
- Tests exercise a real FTL instance (DNS resolution, API, configuration), so they must run on Linux with the built binary present.
- Add or extend tests for any behavioural change.
- Fix any compiler warnings your change introduces; CI treats them as errors.

## PR instructions

- Base all work on the `development` branch; pull requests target `development`.
- Read the [contributors guide](https://docs.pi-hole.net/guides/github/contributing/)
- Every commit must be signed off (DCO): use `git commit -s`.

> - Run the test suite before committing.

Reviewer: Any commit must be cryptographically signed. 
https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/about-commit-signature-verification

## Project overview

FTL (`pihole-FTL`) is Pi-hole's DNS/DHCP engine. It embeds a modified `dnsmasq`, adds a query database, statistics, and a REST API, and serves the web interface via an embedded web server. It is written in C, built with CMake, and targets Linux only.

## Repository layout

- `src/` - FTL source code (C)
- `src/dnsmasq/` - embedded dnsmasq (do not modify; see "Vendored code policy" below)
- `src/api/` - REST API implementation and OpenAPI specification
- `src/config/` - configuration handling (`pihole.toml`)
- `src/database/` - query database (SQLite3)
- `src/webserver/` - embedded web server (CivetWeb) and Lua handling
- `test/` - test suite (BATS-based, plus API and regression tests)
- `tools/` - standalone helper scripts (TLS cert generation, MAC vendor lookup, TOML-to-Markdown docs)
- `cmake/` - build output directory created by `build.sh`; gitignored, not part of a checkout

## Vendored code policy

FTL vendors several third-party libraries. For all of them, the default is to send a fix upstream, not to carry it as a local patch; a patch is only justified for something genuinely Pi-hole specific with little or no chance of upstream acceptance.

> - `src/dnsmasq/` is a verbatim copy of upstream dnsmasq and must not be modified at all, no exceptions. Send fixes to the [`dnsmasq-discuss` mailing list](https://lists.thekelleys.org.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/dnsmasq-discuss); they get merged in once they land in dnsmasq master. Pi-hole-specific behavior belongs in `src/dnsmasq_interface.c`, never in the vendored tree.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `src/dnsmasq/` tracks upstream dnsmasq and must not be modified, no exceptions. The `FTL_*()` calls already present in it are the complete set of Pi-hole additions and are not a precedent for more: every one of them is a call into `src/dnsmasq_interface.c`, which is where Pi-hole-specific behavior belongs.  Send `dnsmasq` related fixes to the [`dnsmasq-discuss` mailing list](https://lists.thekelleys.org.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/dnsmasq-discuss). They reach us through a merge once they land in dnsmasq master.
```

> - CivetWeb (`src/webserver/`), the bundled Lua, and SQLite3 are the only vendored components with a local patch mechanism: genuinely Pi-hole-specific changes (URI rewriting, the CSRF token, bundled Lua script loading, etc.) live as patch files under `patch/<library>/`, applied via the matching `patch/<library>.sh` script during the build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- CivetWeb (`src/webserver/`), the bundled Lua, and SQLite3 are the only vendored components with a local patch mechanism: genuinely Pi-hole-specific changes (URI rewriting, the CSRF token, bundled Lua script loading, etc.) live as patch files under `patch/<library>/`, applied via the matching `patch/<library>.sh` script manually after each drop-in copy from upstream (only done by the FTL maintainers team). What is committed in the tree is the already-patched source.
```
